{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The purpose of this OP-Z MIDI configuration is to create a set of controls, that when given random values, provide some interesting changes in timbre to the voices on the Virus TI. This is meant to aid in quick randomized sound design type changes on the synth. It can be used as a controller with automation, but the idea was to give you control over as many sound oriented parameters on the Virus TI so you can go deep in changing wave forms, timbre, tunings, lfo\'92s and amp envelopes. \
\
When using the OP-Z for generating random values, we are limited to 16 MIDI cc parameters per track. I have copied the MIDI CC controls that I think might be best suited for new voice / patch creation on the Virus TI. \
\

\b How to use:
\b0 \
Replace the 
\b midi.json
\b0  file on your OP-Z with the one included in this repository. \
\
As always, I recommend making a backup of your existing midi.json file so you can revert back to whatever settings you had previously if you want to. \
\
Track 1 - 7 on the OP-Z all have custom MIDI cc mappings that are described and laid out for you on the included web page here. Tracks have been organized according to the types of parameters that they can effect on the Virus TI hardware synth. \
\
Once you load up the OP-Z, connect it to a MIDI interface that is also connected via MIDI to your Virus TI. I had my Virus set to receive MIDI on Channel 9 and in single mode. \
\
Choose a patch, play some keys on the OP-Z and then use the randomize feature on the OP-z for track 1 to quickly hear immediate changes and try out different randomized settings to the timbre until you have something you like. Follow this same process from Track 1 through track 7. \
\
I suggest using one of tracks 6, 7 or 8 on the OP-Z to sequence so that you have the full range of octaves and flexibility to play with polyphony. \
\
Feel free to go through each page of parameters on the OP-Z and fine tune settings as you prefer. Once you have something you are happy with, go ahead and save this as a patch on the Virus TI so you can use it later. \
\
This is my first release, so I expect to make further revisions if I see a midi mapping layout that works better for sound design purposes. \
\
}